draft-001-dbs (#1083)
spectrocloud/librarium: content/docs/04.5-devx/05-app-profile/08-services/50-service-listings/1-mysql.md

fullWidth: false
logoUrl: "https://registry.dev.spectrocloud.com/v1/mysql-operator/blobs/sha256:2d59bc428916752528280eac03330d712164163e2f3c476409f5c25d8a7c2778?type=image/png"
---

import Tabs from 'shared/components/ui/Tabs';
import WarningBox from 'shared/components/WarningBox';
import InfoBox from 'shared/components/InfoBox';

# MySQL

[MySQL](https://www.mysql.com/) is an open-source relational database management system commonly used in web applications and other software that requires a database. It is known for its reliability, ease of use, and flexibility. MySQL is covered under the GNU license and uses structured query language (SQL) to manage data with the following properties:

<br />

* Creates a database for storing and manipulating data and defining the relationship of each table.

* Clients can retrieve and manipulate data by creating SQL queries and submitting them to the MySQL instance.

# Add MySQL to App Profile

Use the following steps to add MySQL to an app profile.

<br />

## Prerequisite

A Spectro Cloud [account](https://www.spectrocloud.com/get-started/).

<br />

## Enablement

1. Log in to [Palette](console.spectrocloud.com).

> 2. On the right side of the window, click on the **User Menu**. Once the user menu is expanded, click on **Switch to App Mode**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. On the right side of the window, click on the **User Menu**, then select **Switch to App Mode**.
```

Reviewer: I'd suggest this wording throughout so we don't have so many "Click on" mentions.

> 3. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and click on **App Profiles** to create a [new App Profile](/devx/app-profile/create-app-profile/). Provide the following basic information and click **Next**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and click **App Profiles** to create a [new App Profile](/devx/app-profile/create-app-profile/). Provide the following basic information and click **Next**.
```

|    **Parameter**            | **Description** |
|-----------------------------|-----------------|
|Application Profile Name     | A custom name for the app profile.|
|Version (optional)           | The default value is 1.0.0. You can create multiple versions of an App Profile using the format **`major.minor.patch`**.|
|Description (optional)       | Description of the app profile.| 
|Tag (optional)               | Assign tags to the app profile.|
 

4. Select **MySQL** from the database services and start the configuration.
  

5. Provide the following information to the wizard:

>   * **Name:** The database name. You can use the auto generated name or create a custom name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * **Name:** The database name. You can use the auto-generated name or create a custom name.
```

Reviewer: In one of the other files, I think it said Palette-generated. Auto-generated is preferable. I'm not sure which file it was in to change it to 'auto-generated'.

  * **Root Password:** The root password for the database service.

  * Database Volume Size (GiB): Select the volume size for the database. Ensure you stay within the storage amount available in the cluster group and virtual clusters.

>   * Select the version from the **Version** drop-down.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Select the version from the **Version** drop-down menu.
```

6. Click on **Save Changes**.

## Validation

> * To validate your database service in App Profile, navigate to the **App Profiles** page, where all your app profiles are listed. Click the **App Profile Name** to see the service layers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To validate your database service in App Profile, navigate to the **App Profiles** page, where all your app profiles are listed. Click the **App Profile Name** to display the service layers.
```

> * * To validate that your database service is in the app profile, navigate to the **App Profiles** page, where all your app profiles are listed. Click on the app profile you wish to review the service layers. The following screen displays the different service layers that make up the app profile. Ensure MySQL is an available service layer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* * To verify your database service is in the app profile, navigate to the **App Profiles** page, where all your app profiles are listed. Select the app profile to review the service layers. The following screen displays the different service layers that make up the app profile. Ensure MySQL is an available service layer.
```

|**Color Code**| **Description**|
|--------------|--------------|
|Green| Successfully Deployed|
|Blue | Under Deployment|
|Red  | Error State|

# Output Variables

> The exposed output variables of this service layer that may be used in other service layers. These output variables are typically used for connectivity purposes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The exposed output variables of this service layer may be used in other service layers. These output variables are typically used for connectivity purposes:
```

| Parameter              | Output Variable                                                                     | Description                                     |
|------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------|
| Database Root Password | `{{.spectro.app.$appDeploymentName.<service-name>.ROOT_PASSWORD}}`              | The root password of the MySQL database. |
| Service Hostname       | `{{.spectro.app.$appDeploymentName.<service-name>.MYSQLMSTR_SVC}}`      | The Kubernetes service hostname for the database.                |
| Service Port           | `{{.spectro.app.$appDeploymentName.<service-name>.MYSQLMSTR_SVC_PORT}}` | The exposed ports for the database service.              |
| Namespace           | `{{.spectro.app.$appDeploymentName.<service-name>.MYSQLMSTR_SVC_NAMESPACE}}` | The Kubernetes namespace the MySQL database is deployed to.              |

# Database Password

> You can get the database password by reading the content of the Kubernetes secret created for the database. To retrieve the password for the MySQL database root user, use the following command format. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can get the database password by reading the content of the Kubernetes Secret created for the database. To retrieve the password for the MySQL database root user, use the following command format. 
```

Reviewer: Do we want to say "You can retrieve the database password..." ?

```
kubectl get secret <app-name>-<service-name>-user \
 -n <app name>-<service name>-ns -o jsonpath='{.data.ROOT_PASSWORD}' | base64 --decode
```

Replace the values with the respective names.

>   * app-name: represents the name of the  app name provided during the Palette App creation process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * app-name: represents the name of the  app provided during the app creation process.
```
